[Upbeat jazzy music]
¶ ¶
>> he's TV's very own Mr. magic,
johnathan Ross.
Johnathan Ross.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Thank you.
Let's get that out of the way.
Hello, everybody, and welcome to
hello, everybody, and welcome to
penn & teller: Fool us, where
magicians must fool the greatest
trick masters of the age.
Trick masters of the age.
And I can promise you,
and I can promise you,
absolutely no camera tricks are
used on this show.
Used on this show.
It is like a nudist beach:
Good, bad, or ugly, we're gonna
good, bad, or ugly, we're gonna
let you see it all.
Let you see it all.
The challenge facing our acts
the challenge facing our acts
tonight is huge.
Tonight is huge.
They must perform in front of
they must perform in front of
the true greats of their craft.
The true greats of their craft.
And they are, of course,
and they are, of course,
penn and teller!
Penn and teller!
[Upbeat jazzy music]
[Cheers and applause]
Howdy-doody, gentlemen.
Let's get right to it.
Go take your seats.
Let's go, let's go.
>> Well, let's see what you got,
>> well, let's see what you got,
johnathan.
Johnathan.
Hope he worked on a few, huh?
>> I'm keen to see some magic.
Let's get amongst it.
Let's meet tonight's first
let's meet tonight's first
wannabe fooler.
>> I'm Shawn farquhar.
I come from a little place
called maple Ridge,
British Columbia, Canada,
population about the same as
Heathrow airport.
I've been doing magic all my
life.
Life.
My mom says when I was born, the
my mom says when I was born, the
doctor slapped me, and I said,
"pick a card."
"Pick a card."
My father was a magician,
my father was a magician,
my grandfather,
my great-grandfather.
My great-grandfather.
I'm like the fourth generation
without a real job.
In 2009, I went into Beijing,
China, the world Olympics of
magic, and in front of 3,200 of
my peers, I won the world
championship for card magic.
Championship for card magic.
It's an amazing title, and it
it's an amazing title, and it
gives me an opportunity to see
the world.
The world.
Show time.
Time to have some fun.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Will you please welcome the
>> will you please welcome the
reigning world champion of card
magic, Mr. Shawn farquhar?
Magic, Mr. Shawn farquhar?
[Cheers and applause]
>> Wow.
Thank you so much for that
thank you so much for that
warm welcome.
Warm welcome.
It's a real pleasure to come
it's a real pleasure to come
across the pond to share with
you one of my magic tricks.
You one of my magic tricks.
I'm gonna do a card trick, but
it's a special one, and it's
gonna use a brand-new deck of
cards.
Cards.
Penn, would you mind helping me?
>> I'll try.
Should I stand up?
>> Penn gillette, please come
>> penn gillette, please come
and join me.
And join me.
Thank you, sir.
I would've picked teller, but I
think the conversation might
have been very one-sided.
Have been very one-sided.
I have a brand-new deck of
cards, hermetically sealed.
Cards, hermetically sealed.
Inside of this deck of cards is
inside of this deck of cards is
the little paper seal.
The little paper seal.
It says "the United States
it says "the United States
playing card company."
Playing card company."
>> Sure does.
>> It confirms that it's a
>> it confirms that it's a
brand-new deck of cards.
Brand-new deck of cards.
>> And not Canadian.
>> That's true.
Look, I'm--[Laughs]
Not much is.
Look, I'm gonna pop it open.
Inside, a brand-new deck of
inside, a brand-new deck of
cards, never touched by human
hands.
Hands.
Would you cup your hands
would you cup your hands
together like that for me?
Together like that for me?
I'm gonna drop the cards on your
hand.
Hand.
Now, I know you know cards, but
now, I know you know cards, but
they don't.
They don't.
I just want to point out, that
if you look at the brand-new
deck, there are two premium
cards here.
Cards here.
>> Right.
>> These, they're advertised
>> these, they're advertised
things.
Things.
The other end of the deck has
the other end of the deck has
two jokers.
Two jokers.
One is like a traditional one
one is like a traditional one
and the other is like a
guarantee joker.
Guarantee joker.
We're not gonna use those, but
we're not gonna use those, but
we're gonna keep the one joker
in.
In.
>> Okay.
>> Can you kind of fan them out
>> can you kind of fan them out
so the audience can see what
new deck order looks like?
New deck order looks like?
You can see it runs ace through
you can see it runs ace through
king.
King.
See the two kings in the middle,
see the two kings in the middle,
folks?
Folks?
These are what we call the
these are what we call the
kissing kings.
Kissing kings.
I call them the brokeback kings.
[Laughter]
Do me a favor, and shuffle up
do me a favor, and shuffle up
the cards.
The cards.
When you feel they're completely
when you feel they're completely
shuffled, let me know.
Shuffled, let me know.
>> I believe persi diaconis said
you have to do 12 shuffles.
You have to do 12 shuffles.
Didn't he say?
But I'll just do four or five.
I believe that's okay.
We'll give them a cut and won't
we'll give them a cut and won't
let you see the bottom.
Let you see the bottom.
>> Perfect.
Would you do me a favor?
Touch a card on the back.
Just kind of plunk your finger,
just kind of plunk your finger,
take a look at it.
Take a look at it.
It's all right if I see it.
I've seen this trick before.
>> Okay.
>> What card did you get?
No, I have.
It's one of my favorites.
>> I got the 7 of diamonds.
>> Seriously?
You could not have picked a more
you could not have picked a more
perfect card.
Perfect card.
Write your name right on the
write your name right on the
face of the card.
Face of the card.
>> I will.
>> Perfect.
Once the card's been signed,
once the card's been signed,
we'll recap.
We'll recap.
>> Okay.
>> That's the pen.
>> Oh, I see.
>> It's the joke.
[Laughter]
Just explaining to everybody
just explaining to everybody
else.
Else.
Would you hold out your hand
would you hold out your hand
just flat like that?
Just flat like that?
>> I certainly will.
>> I'll place the cards here.
Place your other hand on top
place your other hand on top
trapping the cards in between
fully and effectively, and I'll
remove one card.
Remove one card.
>> Okay.
>> If I removed your card, would
>> if I removed your card, would
that be impressive?
That be impressive?
>> That would be very
>> that would be very
impressive.
Impressive.
>> No, it wouldn't.
I got a joker.
It's okay. It's okay.
How about this?
I can do better than that.
>> Okay.
If I could reach in between your
if I could reach in between your
hands, and straighten one card
up so it's the opposite
direction, and it was your card,
the 7 of diamonds, would
that be...
That be...
>> That'd be pretty good.
>> Okay, I can do better.
How about this?
Would I fool you if I were to
would I fool you if I were to
put those cards back in new deck
order, and put the one card
reversed?
Reversed?
>> Yeah, that'd be pretty good.
>> Okay.
>> I'm not gonna say you're
gonna fool me.
Gonna fool me.
I won't say that yet.
>> Good, good, good.
How about if I took the cards,
how about if I took the cards,
and put them in new deck order,
reverse the one card, put them
in the cardboard box, put the
paper seal, and wrapped them up
in the plastic?
In the plastic?
>> Oh, that would be a fine
>> oh, that would be a fine
trick.
Trick.
[Laughter]
>> I just did it.
Take a look.
It's a brand-new deck of cards.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Whoa.
>> Because you're the closest,
>> because you're the closest,
I want you to see.
Is there a cut or a slit in the
is there a cut or a slit in the
top of the box?
Top of the box?
>> There is not.
>> Cut or a slit in the bottom
>> cut or a slit in the bottom
of the box?
Of the box?
>> Well, not that I can see.
>> How about the side?
>> Not that I can see.
>> The other side?
>> Top or back?
>> Nope.
>> It's a brand-new deck of
>> it's a brand-new deck of
cards.
Cards.
>> I believe so.
>> I'm gonna pop this open.
Inside, there is a paper seal.
It says "United States playing
it says "United States playing
card company."
Card company."
>> Not Canadian.
>> Deja vu.
Deja vu.
Sometimes it takes four.
Look, I'm gonna pop open the
look, I'm gonna pop open the
paper seal.
Paper seal.
Inside, a brand-new deck of
inside, a brand-new deck of
cards never touched by human
hands.
Hands.
Okay, yeah, that's perfect.
>> I remember from last time.
>> You've seen this part.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> I want to point something
out.
Out.
If you look at the deck,
if you look at the deck,
there isn't a premium card on
the end.
The end.
Do you know why?
>> Why is that?
>> They're in my pocket.
Remember?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Let me get them out.
There's a lot of them.
There's the jokers, and the
there's the jokers, and the
premium card.
Premium card.
All of them were in here.
That means that this should be a
that means that this should be a
new deck ordered deck.
New deck ordered deck.
Take a look and see if they run
take a look and see if they run
ace through king.
Ace through king.
Oh, maybe you can turn this way,
oh, maybe you can turn this way,
so the camera can see.
So the camera can see.
>> Maybe I could.
Someone who was a professional
someone who was a professional
in show business would have done
that automatically.
That automatically.
>> Now, when you get to the
>> now, when you get to the
diamonds, do you notice one card
is reversed?
Is reversed?
>> I do, between the 8 and the
6 of diamonds...
>> Would be where the 7 should
>> would be where the 7 should
be.
Be.
>> Exactly where my selected
>> exactly where my selected
card should be.
Card should be.
>> And would you like me to
>> and would you like me to
remove it to make it easier for
you?
You?
I'll just kind of pull it like
that, lightly, and turn it
around like that so you can see
that it really does have your
signature.
Signature.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Wow.
Wow.
That is fabulous.
>> Thank you so much.
[Cheering continues]
>> Mr. Shawn farquhar,
everybody.
Everybody.
That was incredible.
>> Thanks, Jonathan.
>> Okay, so, I know you're not
>> okay, so, I know you're not
going to tell us how you did it,
but that was unique.
But that was unique.
Does anyone else do that?
>> It's a trick.
It's my job.
>> But does anyone else--
>> but does anyone else--
[Laughter]
I know you can't share, but
does anyone else do that
particular technique?
Particular technique?
>> No, there was a--not the
>> no, there was a--not the
similar technique.
Similar technique.
The same effect was a gentlemen
the same effect was a gentlemen
by the name of George schindler
many years ago, now the Dean of
American magicians.
He inspired me, but I came up
he inspired me, but I came up
with a completely different
method.
Method.
>> And that would be the key, I
>> and that would be the key, I
guess, this evening, to fool
those guys, 'cause if it's a new
method and they haven't seen it
before, they can't put their
finger on it, we'll get away
with it, and by we, I mean you,
of course, although I'd like
some of the reflected glory.
Some of the reflected glory.
>> That's awesome.
I'll share.
>> And is that one of the most
>> and is that one of the most
technically difficult ones in
your routine to do?
Your routine to do?
>> It is, in fact, not the most
>> it is, in fact, not the most
technically difficult, but it's
probably the most fun to
present, because most of it
takes place in the spectator's
hands, and I think magic that
takes place in somebody else's
hands is so much more powerful
than magic that takes place in
our own.
Our own.
>> That's what I tell my wife
>> that's what I tell my wife
all the time.
All the time.
>> That's true.
>> I'm learning some tricks at
home.
Home.
That's all it is.
I think we have given you enough
time.
Time.
Uh, penn?
>> This is a really, really
>> this is a really, really
tough call for us.
Tough call for us.
I think anybody has to know that
at some point, you had to do a
deck switch.
Deck switch.
Unfortunately, there was a
unfortunately, there was a
moment when we both saw it, when
you were pulling the pen out.
You were pulling the pen out.
>> Yes.
>> And we had all these
>> and we had all these
discussions, and meetings about
this, which we've talked for
hours with the producers about
what would constitute fooling
us.
Us.
We've said over and over again,
we've said over and over again,
if we actually saw a move, it
would negate the whole thing.
Would negate the whole thing.
But all that having been said,
but all that having been said,
and the feeling that we saw a
move that we should not have
seen, we have no idea how you
got the [Bleep] card into the
[Bleep].
>> Yeah!
[Cheers and applause]
>> I think that to be honest and
fair...
Fair...
>> Yes!
>> I think right out of the
deck...
Deck...
>> That's incredible.
>> I should say...
>> Don't do that.
Don't take it out on me.
>> That you absolutely did, on
>> that you absolutely did, on
the most important part of the
trick, I think you did fool us.
Trick, I think you did fool us.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Speaking as someone who--
>> speaking as someone who--
>> [Bleep]!
I have no idea how he got that
in there.
In there.
[Laughter]
Son of a gun.
>> Can I ask you to make us one
>> can I ask you to make us one
promise?
Promise?
>> What's that?
>> Never tell them.
>> I won't!
>> There we go, never tell them.
Shawn farquhar, ladies and
gentlemen, he fooled them!
Gentlemen, he fooled them!
[Cheers and applause]
>> Well...
What a start!
It's time for a break, but we'll
it's time for a break, but we'll
be right back with more
contenders, and penn and teller
themselves performing right here
on this stage.
On this stage.
Don't go away.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Welcome to back to  fool us
>> welcome to back to  fool us
where the best current magicians
perform to try and win a spot in
Vegas by fooling
penn and teller.
Penn and teller.
So let's meet our next
so let's meet our next
contender.
>> My name is Manuel Martinez,
and I originate from Cuba.
And I originate from Cuba.
I have a lovely little place in
Guantanamo, overlooking the bay
there.
I love to visit all the local
shops here in margate.
Shops here in margate.
They have many unusual and
they have many unusual and
unique things in the stores.
Unique things in the stores.
In fact, oh, look, there's me.
I've been performing magic now
for almost 25 years.
For almost 25 years.
Come to me, little bear.
Performing in front of
performing in front of
penn and teller is gonna be a
little frightening.
Little frightening.
To be honest, I'm gonna be
to be honest, I'm gonna be
terrified, because I've never
done the trick before anyway.
Done the trick before anyway.
Come to me.
It's a little dangerous.
In fact, there's a lot of
in fact, there's a lot of
danger.
Danger.
I win!
Not so much for me, but for the
not so much for me, but for the
other people involved.
Other people involved.
Say hello to my little friend.
Playing in Vegas will be
playing in Vegas will be
fantastic, because I owe a lot
of money to some very powerful
people back in Cuba, so I really
need this chance.
Need this chance.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Please welcome
>> please welcome
Mr. Manuel Martinez.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Good evening, mi amigos, and
>> good evening, mi amigos, and
welcome to my show.
Welcome to my show.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can't
ladies and gentlemen, I can't
believe these words are gonna
come out of my mouth now.
Come out of my mouth now.
Will you please welcome my
will you please welcome my
guest, Jonathan Ross?
Guest, Jonathan Ross?
[Cheers and applause]
>>  Hola, Manuel. Como estas?
Nice to meet you, sir.
>> Hello, Jonathan.
I will also need quite a
good-looking assistant, so, um,
someone quite glamorous.
Someone quite glamorous.
Madame, do you see anyone
madame, do you see anyone
suitable?
Suitable?
[Laughter]
Actually, you'll be fine.
Will you please--
will you please--
what is your name, my love?
What is your name, my love?
>> Sara.
>> It's Sara.
Give Sara a big round of
give Sara a big round of
applause, ladies and gentlemen.
Applause, ladies and gentlemen.
[Cheers and applause]
I have here, ladies and
gentlemen, one solid wooden
board, okay, which I want to
give to Jonathan to have a look
at.
At.
Feel free to give it a thump.
It's fine.
>> It's definitely solid.
>> Definitely solid, okay.
You can actually hang the rope
you can actually hang the rope
over your neck, Jonathan.
Over your neck, Jonathan.
>> Okay.
[Laughter]
>> Now, Sara, have you ever
>> now, Sara, have you ever
thrown a knife before?
Thrown a knife before?
[Laughter]
You look a little worried there.
>> I am a little worried, yes.
>> No, there's no knives,
>> no, there's no knives,
ladies and gentlemen, but what
there is is one industrial
strength staple gun.
Strength staple gun.
I have here this balloon, okay?
I want you just to hold the
balloon, okay, between your two
hands like this, top and bottom,
nice and tight, okay?
Nice and tight, okay?
That's perfect, okay.
So ladies and gentlemen, I want
so ladies and gentlemen, I want
you now to imagine that this
latex skin of the balloon is
much like your own fragile skin.
Much like your own fragile skin.
[Laughter]
Now, of course, we need further
now, of course, we need further
proof, okay, and that is where
Jonathan Ross will come--
>> you know what, I don't need
any more proof.
Any more proof.
I'm fine.
[Laughter]
>> Jonathan Ross, I need you to
hold your hand up in front of
you like this, okay?
You like this, okay?
Now, ladies and gentlemen,
now, ladies and gentlemen,
another statistic about the gun
is that when I push the trigger,
the staple coming out is flying
out at over just ten meters per
second, okay?
Second, okay?
>> Hold on, if we're gonna do
>> hold on, if we're gonna do
that, I want to use that,
because that's my business hand.
Because that's my business hand.
Let's use this one.
If you're gonna fire that at me,
if you're gonna fire that at me,
I'd rather 'cause I might be
needing that.
Needing that.
Ow! You--
ow! You--
you hit me with a staple.
You hit me with a staple.
>> I did.
I have here, ladies and
gentlemen, I brought especially
some special promotional
coasters.
Coasters.
I'm gonna actually staple these
to the wooden board, so that you
can see the staples, and,
Jonathan, if you watch down, you
will see the staples, okay...
Will see the staples, okay...
>> Yes.
>> Coming out, okay.
They're genuinely going in.
I'll put another one here, so
you can see without any doubt,
and you should be able to feel
the staples.
The staples.
>> I certainly felt that.
It was not entirely unpleasant.
[Laughter]
>> Sara, I would like you to
have a go as well, so please
take the gun from me here, okay.
Take the gun from me here, okay.
We have another one of these
we have another one of these
beer mats.
Beer mats.
Just come and stand over here
just come and stand over here
so the audience can see.
So the audience can see.
>> Sara, I don't know if I said
this.
This.
You have a very kind face.
[Laughter]
>> Just, of course, mind my
>> just, of course, mind my
fingers.
Fingers.
Now things are gonna get a
now things are gonna get a
little more interesting.
Little more interesting.
Sara, would you join me, please,
over here?
Over here?
I want you to stand behind this
plinth here with the green
cloth, because ladies and
gentlemen...
Gentlemen...
Four more industrial strength
four more industrial strength
staple guns, okay?
Staple guns, okay?
Now, these staple guns are
now, these staple guns are
identical to the one that Sara
is holding in her hand.
Is holding in her hand.
The only difference is, ladies
the only difference is, ladies
and gentlemen, that these staple
guns are empty.
Guns are empty.
They are not loaded with
they are not loaded with
staples, and therefore, are
completely safe.
Completely safe.
I want you to take the guns out
of the slots, and put them in
different random slots to really
mix them up, and you are gonna
do this while I'm blindfolded.
Do this while I'm blindfolded.
I have a special blindfold here,
ladies and gentlemen, that I
keep in the boot of my car.
Keep in the boot of my car.
[Laughter]
In case you're just tuning in
in case you're just tuning in
now, this is not a remake of
the elephant man.
The elephant man.
[Laughter]
It is me, Manuel Martinez.
Okay, Sara, you will begin to
okay, Sara, you will begin to
mix up the guns now, and when
you're happy with that, you can
give it a spin.
Oh, you're still here.
Okay.
So, are you confident now that
so, are you confident now that
the guns are mixed up?
The guns are mixed up?
You genuinely don't know which
you genuinely don't know which
one is loaded now, okay?
One is loaded now, okay?
>> Yeah.
>> Perfect, because now, we're
>> perfect, because now, we're
gonna play a game.
Gonna play a game.
You know it by the name of
you know it by the name of
Russian roulette...
Cuban style.
Okay, so you're happy that these
okay, so you're happy that these
are all mixed up, okay?
Are all mixed up, okay?
You can't possibly know which
you can't possibly know which
one is real, which one is
loaded.
Loaded.
Okay, that's perfect.
Reach out with your left hand,
reach out with your left hand,
and just pick up one of the
guns.
Guns.
You're happy with this one?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, I'd like you to put
>> okay, I'd like you to put
this down on the plinth here.
This down on the plinth here.
Keep it in full view of the
keep it in full view of the
audience.
Audience.
Just stand it up so everyone can
just stand it up so everyone can
still see it.
Still see it.
Perfect.
If Sara chose correctly,
if Sara chose correctly,
ladies and gentlemen, there is
nothing to worry about, okay,
because I'm going to take each
one of these four guns that are
left now, and fire them into
various parts of my body.
Various parts of my body.
Sara, if you please, choose one
of the first guns there.
Of the first guns there.
Okay, perfect, this one, ladies
okay, perfect, this one, ladies
and gentlemen, I'm going to
take, and fire into my hand.
Take, and fire into my hand.
>> Well, I know that's not
>> well, I know that's not
pleasant, so knock yourself out.
Pleasant, so knock yourself out.
>> Here we go.
Ah!
It's completely safe.
Ladies and gentlemen, nothing
ladies and gentlemen, nothing
there.
There.
One more.
[Cheers and applause]
Okay, hand me another one, Sara.
Hand me another one.
Not that one, not that--
not that one, not that--
I'm just kidding.
This one, ladies and gentlemen,
this one, ladies and gentlemen,
I'm gonna take and fire into
my face.
My face.
Now, kids, if you're out there,
now, kids, if you're out there,
please, don't try this until you
get home, okay?
Get home, okay?
[Laughter]
No, if you do it here, I'm going
no, if you do it here, I'm going
to get in a lot of trouble,
okay?
Okay?
Ah!
It's completely safe, ladies and
it's completely safe, ladies and
gentlemen.
Gentlemen.
Two down.
Okay, Sara, hand me another one.
Hand me another one.
That's perfect.
Okay, we're going to take this
okay, we're going to take this
one, ladies and gentlemen, and
this looks far more dangerous,
okay?
Okay?
I'm going to fire this one into
my throat.
It's fine.
It's empty.
Nothing there.
Only two guns remain:
The gun that you chose at the
the gun that you chose at the
beginning, and the one left in
the turntable.
The turntable.
Are you happy with your decision
are you happy with your decision
that you made?
That you made?
>> Yeah.
>> I want you to be confident,
because this next gun, we're
gonna take, and fire into the
face of Jonathan Ross.
Face of Jonathan Ross.
[Laughter]
I'm just kidding, Jonathan Ross.
I'm not gonna fire into the
face, okay, but I would like
you, Sara, to hand this gun to
Jonathan Ross, because I do want
Jonathan Ross to fire it, so if
you just take it from the
turntable, bring it over to
Jonathan Ross.
Just hand him the gun, okay,
just hand him the gun, okay,
and Jonathan Ross is gonna fire
this last gun, ladies and
gentlemen, into another one of
our special promotional beer
mat coasters, except this time,
it's going to be against my
head.
Head.
[Laughter]
What's the worst that can
what's the worst that can
happen?
Happen?
[Laughter]
>> We'll have a walking
>> we'll have a walking
billboard for the program.
Billboard for the program.
That's going to be a better--
that's going to be a better--
okay, so I push it against,
and do the...
And do the...
>> Right against the head.
>> Touch it?
>> Right against.
Anywhere you like.
>> Quite hard?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Ah!
She chose right!
[Cheers and applause]
>> Congratulations.
>> Ladies and gentlemen, I know
>> ladies and gentlemen, I know
you want to see does the gun
contain staples?
Contain staples?
We're gonna take that last one,
we're gonna take that last one,
and we're gonna prove.
And we're gonna prove.
Jonathan, if you just stand
very still, we're gonna
just...There's another one,
ladies and gentlemen, and, of
course, you may remember him
from earlier, say hello to my
little friend.
Little friend.
We're gonna put him on as well,
we're gonna put him on as well,
okay?
Okay?
No, no.
Before we go any further, will
before we go any further, will
you take the gun, and Jonathan,
will you just step around to
Sara's right-hand side?
I'm just gonna pull the
chamber.
Chamber.
This is the chamber where the
this is the chamber where the
staples are contained.
Staples are contained.
Jonathan, will you confirm?
Are there indeed staples inside?
>> There are staples inside.
>> I'm gonna ask you to tip them
onto the hand.
Onto the hand.
Ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen,
there they are.
There they are.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Nice job, Manuel Martinez,
>> nice job, Manuel Martinez,
ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen.
And his beautiful assistant
and his beautiful assistant
Sara.
[Cheers and applause]
Thank you, Sara, nice job.
Well, that was very impressive,
well, that was very impressive,
and a tiny bit painful early on.
And a tiny bit painful early on.
Come and stand up front here.
We'll let penn and teller talk
we'll let penn and teller talk
about this here.
About this here.
How close do you think you're
how close do you think you're
going to get to fooling them?
Going to get to fooling them?
Do you think you're going to go
do you think you're going to go
all the way?
All the way?
Do you think you'll wind up in
do you think you'll wind up in
Vegas, or do you think they'll
know how to do it?
Know how to do it?
>> Well, these guys are pretty
>> well, these guys are pretty
smart, so...
Smart, so...
>> One of them is.
One of them is, we know that.
[Laughter]
>> All right.
>> You ever been to Vegas
>> you ever been to Vegas
before?
Before?
You ever performed there?
>> I've never been to Las Vegas.
>> So this will be a big thing
>> so this will be a big thing
for you.
For you.
>> This will be a big thing for
>> this will be a big thing for
me.
Me.
This would be life-changing.
>> Penn, teller, I don't know
>> penn, teller, I don't know
who wants to speak first.
Who wants to speak first.
How did he do it?
Did he fool you?
>> One way you could've done it
>> one way you could've done it
is things that look identical
can have a hero tag.
Can have a hero tag.
You could have spotted that
you could have spotted that
stapler, moved it to the left,
had her use her left hand,
gambled that she was gonna reach
for that, and then done another
out adjusting, and if she
didn't, but you got lucky,
because that could be the way
she was most likely to reach it.
She was most likely to reach it.
However, that's not the way you
however, that's not the way you
did it.
Did it.
The smart guy has it so that
the smart guy has it so that
when that thing spins, none of
those staplers will fire, in
which case, you need to have
some way to have that be a
prover.
Prover.
Pulling out the staples at the
pulling out the staples at the
end, you could have all of them
with that, and it wouldn't
change the firing, so the
question is: How do you get the
card to staple onto the board?
Card to staple onto the board?
And we believe that the card
and we believe that the card
that you stapled on afterward
was actually not stapled, but
stuck to the board with an
adhesive, or in some sort of
other way, and on top of
that, your accent is phony!
That, your accent is phony!
[Laughter]
Your accent is phony.
You did not even fool us with
you did not even fool us with
your accent!
Your accent!
>> Oh, you're good.
They--they--they--
they--they--they--
I would say they nailed it, but
they stapled you right to the
wood on that, didn't they?
Wood on that, didn't they?
>> They did, yes.
Uh, yeah, I'm actually from
uh, yeah, I'm actually from
margate.
Margate.
My name's Gary.
[Laughter]
>> You know what, you didn't
>> you know what, you didn't
fool penn or teller.
Fool penn or teller.
You didn't fool them with the
you didn't fool them with the
accent either.
Accent either.
You fooled me with the accent
you fooled me with the accent
initially, and the act.
Initially, and the act.
I think he fooled everyone.
We had a great show, didn't we?
[Cheers and applause]
It was great.
Manuel Martinez.
Nice job, thank you.
It was really good, wasn't it?
We've got some other great
we've got some other great
performers though for you, so
don't go away.
Don't go away.
We'll see you after the break.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Okay, it's time now to meet
>> okay, it's time now to meet
our next contender, ladies and
gentlemen.
>> Hi, I'm Chris dugdale.
My magic has taken me around the
my magic has taken me around the
world many times, including
performances for her majesty,
the queen.
The queen.
The queen just looked to me at
the queen just looked to me at
one point, and just said,
"it's impossible."
"It's impossible."
I develop my ideas, and then
take them to my director Tony.
Take them to my director Tony.
>> It's great, because Chris has
>> it's great, because Chris has
got such an enthusiastic
presence, and that's so
important for any performer,
really.
Really.
>> I'll pay you later.
>> Right, thank you.
>> This idea is absolutely
>> this idea is absolutely
original.
Original.
As far as we know, nobody has
as far as we know, nobody has
ever done it before in the
world.
World.
I strongly believe that deep
down, every magician loves to be
fooled, and I'm sure it's the
same with penn and teller.
Same with penn and teller.
>> Please welcome from
>> please welcome from
backstage, Mr. Chris dugdale.
Backstage, Mr. Chris dugdale.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Thanks, Jonathan.
It's great to be with you, or
it's great to be with you, or
should I say, "almost with you"?
Should I say, "almost with you"?
I'm talking to you from the
backstage area, because tonight
we're trying to present a
brand-new way of doing magic.
Brand-new way of doing magic.
In other words, you guys, you
in other words, you guys, you
can see me, but I cannot see
you.
You.
In front of you, there's a bowl
in front of you, there's a bowl
of numbers.
Of numbers.
I need you to check them out.
Make sure that each and every
make sure that each and every
number is different.
Number is different.
>> Well, that's gonna take
>> well, that's gonna take
a while.
A while.
>> Now, penn, when I clap my
>> now, penn, when I clap my
hands, I'd like you to dive into
the bowl, and grab any number
you like, and announce it to
the studio audience this
evening.
Evening.
>> Okay.
>> Here we go.
>> I got one.
408.
>> Under every single one of
>> under every single one of
your seats tonight, you'll find
an envelope.
An envelope.
Please lean forward, grab your
please lean forward, grab your
envelope, and rip it open.
Envelope, and rip it open.
Inside, every single one of you
inside, every single one of you
has a different number.
Has a different number.
Please check your numbers right
please check your numbers right
now.
Now.
Now, whoever has the chosen
now, whoever has the chosen
number, I need you to join me
onstage right now, and as you're
coming up, I need you to grab a
second volunteer.
Second volunteer.
Somebody you don't know,
somebody you don't know,
somebody you've never met
before, it can be anyone at all.
Before, it can be anyone at all.
Grab that person, and both of
grab that person, and both of
you, join me on stage
immediately.
Immediately.
You'll be greeted by my stage
you'll be greeted by my stage
director, Tony middleton, who
will guide you through the
routine tonight.
Routine tonight.
>> Thanks, Chris.
Hi, hi, your name is?
>> Neal.
>> Pleased to meet you, Neal.
Hi.
>> Hello.
>> Your name is?
>> Leroy.
>> Pleased to meet you as well.
Thank you very much indeed for
thank you very much indeed for
helping.
Helping.
Chris, back to you.
>> Thanks, Tony.
Now, tonight we've got some
now, tonight we've got some
travel brochures for you to
have a look at.
Have a look at.
Take a good, close look at them.
Make sure they're all different.
Make sure the prices are all
make sure the prices are all
different.
Different.
When you're finished, I need one
when you're finished, I need one
of you to take a seat, and I
need my other volunteer to go
over to the board.
Over to the board.
Tonight, I'm planning to go on
tonight, I'm planning to go on
the holiday of a lifetime, but I
need you volunteers to help me
decide how much it's gonna cost,
and where on earth I'm going.
And where on earth I'm going.
I need a cost for a flight
upgrade, a car rental, a hotel,
and some time in the spa, and
whilst you're doing that, we
need to find out where on earth
you're sending me.
You're sending me.
Now, on the back of everyone's
now, on the back of everyone's
number card in the studio
audience tonight, you'll find
that each and every one of you
has a different destination.
Has a different destination.
Studio audience, would you
studio audience, would you
please hold up your number
cards, turn them around, and
show us that you have a
different destination, every
single one of you?
Single one of you?
So would my volunteer at the
so would my volunteer at the
board take out your number card,
and look at the destination on
the back, and write it up
clearly on the board?
Clearly on the board?
Let me explain something really
let me explain something really
bizarre.
Bizarre.
Tonight, under my jacket, I'm
tonight, under my jacket, I'm
wearing a t-shirt.
Wearing a t-shirt.
On the t-shirt is printed one
on the t-shirt is printed one
word, and one word only.
Word, and one word only.
Now, bearing in mind that I
now, bearing in mind that I
can't see anything that's going
on in the studio tonight, if I
could guess the continent of the
destination, then that would be
pretty good.
Pretty good.
You'd give me some credit.
>> Sure.
>> If I could guess exactly,
>> if I could guess exactly,
then that would be marvelous,
but if the one word on my
t-shirt matched the chosen
destination precisely, well,
then, we'd raise the roof,
because tonight, I had a funny
feeling that you would send me
to...Malaysia.
To...Malaysia.
[Cheers and applause]
Okay, so now we've got to
determine how much my trip to
Malaysia is gonna cost.
Tony, has my volunteer finished
making all the decisions with
the brochures?
The brochures?
>> Yes, they have, Chris.
>> Okay, so, Tony, will you
>> okay, so, Tony, will you
please take the cost over to the
volunteer at the board?
Volunteer at the board?
Now, you at the board, will you
now, you at the board, will you
take the variety of costs
chosen by my other
volunteer, and fill in the
board, and as you're doing so,
will you add them up, and in the
meantime, can I ask Jonathan
Ross to come center stage?
[Cheers and applause]
>> Thank you.
>> Now, before the show tonight,
I gave Jonathan a prediction.
>> Yes.
>> He's been watching it like a
>> he's been watching it like a
hawk.
Hawk.
But before you do anything with
but before you do anything with
that prediction, Jonathan, I
need to ask the volunteer at the
board to clearly announce the
total cost tonight.
Total cost tonight.
>> $1,475.
>> Now, Jonathan Ross, would you
>> now, Jonathan Ross, would you
kindly open the prediction, and
announce it to the studio
audience this evening?
Audience this evening?
>> So this is--and, by the way,
>> so this is--and, by the way,
he gave me this before the show.
He gave me this before the show.
I haven't looked in it.
We haven't spoken at all.
I've got no idea.
I thought there might be a
bribe.
Bribe.
I was tempted, but no, I haven't
opened it.
Opened it.
I haven't looked inside, so this
is the first time I've seen it.
Is the first time I've seen it.
Wow.
You'll never know.
[Laughter]
$1,475.
[Cheers and applause]
That's really good.
>> Thank you very, very much
>> thank you very, very much
indeed.
Indeed.
Please give my two volunteers
please give my two volunteers
onstage a warm round of applause
as they make their way back to
their seats in the audience
tonight.
Tonight.
And penn and teller, don't ask
and penn and teller, don't ask
yourselves if you're fooled
at the end.
At the end.
Ask yourselves honestly if
ask yourselves honestly if
you're fooled before, during,
or after.
Or after.
[Rock music]
¶ ¶
[cheers and applause]
>> That's quite something.
That's quite something.
Wow, that's--
wow, that's--
you impressed me with that.
You impressed me with that.
That's quite...
Certainly unexpected.
I thought Leroy was getting
nervous, because I saw sweat up
here on the back of his head, so
I don't know how he did that.
That's most--
that's most--
well, I'm talking about Leroy as
if he's a different person,
which is a horrible thought.
Which is a horrible thought.
>> Split personality.
>> You were there the whole time
>> you were there the whole time
then?
Then?
>> Yeah, I've been there the
>> yeah, I've been there the
whole time sweat--
sweating, it's really hot.
Sweating, it's really hot.
>> Sweating heavily.
So much sweat it was coming
so much sweat it was coming
through the rubber mask.
Through the rubber mask.
[Laughter]
Can I just ask--
can I just ask--
do you ever wear that getup
just to give your partner a
creep at home?
Creep at home?
Okay, gentlemen, I think we've
okay, gentlemen, I think we've
had enough time.
Had enough time.
We've given you plenty of space
we've given you plenty of space
to deliberate.
To deliberate.
What do you think?
>> I don't think there's
anything more powerful in magic
than a human being turning into
another human being.
Another human being.
>> Thank you.
>> I remember when you watch
mission impossible, and they do
that peelin' the face off thing,
that is done with huge amounts
of movie magic, and to see that
done live is astonishing.
Done live is astonishing.
Is there anybody in the room
is there anybody in the room
that said it was Chris when
Leroy walked onstage?
Unfortunately, one of the people
unfortunately, one of the people
who said that, and said it
aloud to me, was teller when you
walked onto the stage.
Walked onto the stage.
Once you knew that, whatever you
once you knew that, whatever you
wrote on there was not that hard
to do, because all you had to do
was have Malaysia on your card,
and that was done.
And that was done.
>> So they rumbled you in the--
>> so they rumbled you in the--
in the outfit.
In the outfit.
>> Well, we haven't also solved
>> well, we haven't also solved
this question here.
This question here.
What we are figuring is that
what we are figuring is that
none of the numbers in here is
actually under any of these
seats, except for the 408 which
you had, so if someone has the
number 177, or the 181, we do
not know how you got yourself
onstage.
Onstage.
>> Okay, well, this is exciting.
Will you check your numbers
will you check your numbers
again, please?
Again, please?
>> Who has the number 177?
>> Or 181?
>> 375?
>> Chris, can I check--let's
not go through all the numbers.
Not go through all the numbers.
>> 185?
>> Can I check with you?
Has he got that part right?
>> That part you got right.
>> Overall, I think it's fair to
>> overall, I think it's fair to
say you kind of nailed it.
Say you kind of nailed it.
>> That is a trick that we would
>> that is a trick that we would
perform in our show, and be
very, very proud to perform.
Very, very proud to perform.
Just beautiful.
>> Thank you very much.
>> You got close, you got close.
You didn't really fool them.
Chris dugdale, ladies and
gentlemen!
Gentlemen!
>> Bye, you guys.
Thank you.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Okay, it's time now to meet
>> okay, it's time now to meet
our next contender, ladies and
gentlemen.
>> I think my dad was probably
an influence on me.
An influence on me.
My first major national
my first major national
television appearance was
actually with my dad.
Actually with my dad.
A lot of people have tried to
a lot of people have tried to
compare the styles between
myself and my dad, and I always
say that the difference is that
my dad is a magician that does
comedy, and I am a comedian that
does magic.
Does magic.
I've always carried on doing
magic.
Magic.
Magic's always been a part of my
magic's always been a part of my
life.
Life.
Many, many years ago I did a
many, many years ago I did a
theatre tour with my dad.
Theatre tour with my dad.
I used to do this particular
illusion to close the show with
because it was his favorite
illusion.
Illusion.
It's gonna be quite good to come
it's gonna be quite good to come
back on television and do an
illusion on this scale.
Illusion on this scale.
>> Please welcome a trick off
>> please welcome a trick off
the old block, it's Martin
Daniels.
Good day, Martin.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Thank you very much.
Now, the trick I'm about to
now, the trick I'm about to
perform is not just for you guys
here, or for you two either.
Here, or for you two either.
I'm doing this for my dad,
because the trick you're about
to see is his favorite illusion,
and I'm pleased to say that he's
in the audience tonight with his
wife Debra McGee.
Wife Debra McGee.
To me, it's dad.
It's Paul Daniels.
[Cheers and applause]
[Suspenseful orchestral music]
¶ ¶
[cheers and applause]
[Wild cheers and applause]
>> So great, man.
So great.
So good.
That was great.
>> Paul and Martin Daniels.
They're fabulous.
>> Oh, that was great.
>> Wonderful.
>> Just fabulous.
>> Don't these guys do a good
>> don't these guys do a good
job?
Job?
Great job.
>> Paul, thank you for joining
us.
Us.
Martin, great work.
>> Thank you, johnathan.
>> Great work, indeed, and that
>> great work, indeed, and that
was--what a beautiful piece of
theatre as well as anything.
Theatre as well as anything.
>> Just great.
>> The poetry of magic right
>> the poetry of magic right
there.
There.
Theatre, darling.
>> Theatre.
>> Guys, should we go through
>> guys, should we go through
the full process, or is it more
kind of like a--
>> no, I just wanted to surprise
the guys.
The guys.
That was all, not to fool you.
I know you know how it works.
>> It's a lovely piece of magic,
>> it's a lovely piece of magic,
and, you know, I'm sure you know
of Paul Daniels.
Of Paul Daniels.
We all know Paul Daniels, but I
we all know Paul Daniels, but I
suspect I'm safe in saying this
man did more to encourage magic
in this country, and more to get
young people--don't go away--
get more young people into it
than that one there.
Than that one there.
It's like cup and balls.
Really? Please.
I don't know.
But he did more for magic in
but he did more for magic in
this country than any other
individual of our generation.
Individual of our generation.
Mr. Paul Daniels, ladies and
gentlemen, the great Paul
Daniels.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Thanks, everyone.
>> We're gonna take another
>> we're gonna take another
break, but coming up, penn and
teller will be performing a
trick right here so good, it
will have you running to your
opticians for an urgent eye
test.
Test.
Don't go away.
[Cheers and applause]
>> Welcome back to  fool us.
So far tonight, we have seen
so far tonight, we have seen
some tremendous acts, and one
person is going to Vegas.
Person is going to Vegas.
That's incredible, isn't it?
[Cheers and applause]
Now, they may been working
now, they may been working
together for over 35 years, but
they've never stopped inventing
new tricks, new acts, and now,
we're going to see their very
latest.
Latest.
Will you please show your
will you please show your
appreciation for the magnificent
penn and teller?
Penn and teller?
[Cheers and applause]
>> As Jonathan--as Jonathan
said, this is a brand-new trick
for us.
For us.
We've never done it over here.
We've also never done it
we've also never done it
anywhere on television.
Anywhere on television.
It's an escape trick, and we
it's an escape trick, and we
haven't done an escape act in
years.
Years.
It's also a stupid trick.
It's really stupid, but there's
it's really stupid, but there's
one moment in it that's kind of
boss, and we do the whole trick
just for that one moment, and
I'm gonna pick somebody from the
audience here.
Audience here.
Let's see who we got.
How about you, sir, with the
how about you, sir, with the
tats?
Tats?
Yeah, right up here.
What's your name, please?
>> Steve.
>> Come up here, would you
>> come up here, would you
please, Steve?
Please, Steve?
Just walk up here onstage.
Now, when you're brought
now, when you're brought
onstage for an escape act, it
often turns into this kind of
macho competition thing, because
usually when you're brought
onstage for an escape act,
you're essentially, Steve,
you're, like--you're, like,
tying a guy up, you know?
Tying a guy up, you know?
Like, put rope on him, or a
like, put rope on him, or a
straight jacket, or handcuffs,
or leg irons, and there's
telephone booths, and niagara
falls, and helicopters.
Falls, and helicopters.
We're not doing any of that,
we're not doing any of that,
Steve.
What teller's gonna do, is he's
what teller's gonna do, is he's
gonna escape from this trash
bag.
Bag.
[Laughter]
That's the whole trick, an
that's the whole trick, an
escape from a trash bag,
something any of you can do, and
we're also gonna fill the bag
with helium, which makes the
trick even stupider, 'cause
helium is a deadly gas.
Helium is a deadly gas.
It displaces oxygen.
The amount of time you can stay
the amount of time you can stay
in a helium environment is only
the amount of time you can hold
your breath.
Your breath.
It's a deadly gas, but it's also
it's a deadly gas, but it's also
a fun and happy gas.
A fun and happy gas.
[Laughter]
When you think about helium, you
when you think about helium, you
don't think about it being
deadly.
Deadly.
You think about it blowing up
you think about it blowing up
balloons for children's birthday
parties, so it's really stupid
to do a dangerous trick that
looks happy and fun.
Looks happy and fun.
We're gonna fill this bag with
we're gonna fill this bag with
helium, and teller will escape
from the trash bag without
letting the helium out.
Letting the helium out.
Steve, just cinch this shut,
would you please?
Would you please?
When you get it shut, just let
when you get it shut, just let
go for a second.
Go for a second.
I'm just gonna give this a tie,
and then, if you would please,
Steve, bring your hand in here.
Yeah, right in here, left hand,
yeah, right in here, left hand,
right up close so the gas
doesn't get out very much, and
then, you'll also be very
careful of your rings and your
watch, because you don't want to
puncture the bag, or you'll ruin
the whole trick.
The whole trick.
We're gonna start filling this
we're gonna start filling this
up.
Up.
Now, any of you could get out of
now, any of you could get out of
this trash bag, and that's
another thing that makes it
stupid, but filling it up--got
to be real careful of that watch
there, Steve.
There, Steve.
Filling it up here.
I just want to check--I want to
check on teller, make sure he's
doing okay in there.
Doing okay in there.
You okay in there, teller?
>> Yes, I am, penn.
[Laughter]
>> It's rare teller speaks
>> it's rare teller speaks
onstage.
Onstage.
Fill this up a little more.
There you go, Steve.
Now, just keep holding.
I know you're bending over.
Try not to hit it with your
try not to hit it with your
watch there, and then, let go
for a second.
For a second.
Let me just gonna get another
let me just gonna get another
tie in.
Tie in.
Now, you're gonna hold it a
now, you're gonna hold it a
little bit differently.
Little bit differently.
Take your left hand, hold it
take your left hand, hold it
near the end, don't let go.
Near the end, don't let go.
Hold that tight.
Keep it right there.
Don't let go.
Like I said, it's a really
like I said, it's a really
stupid trick, but there's one
moment in it that's really boss.
Moment in it that's really boss.
We do it for just this one
we do it for just this one
moment.
Moment.
One, two, three...And that's the
one, two, three...And that's the
moment right there, when the
audience sees that you're out of
the bag and the helium is still
in it.
In it.
[Cheers and applause]
Thank you so much, Steve.
Watch your--watch your step
watch your--watch your step
there.
There.
That's Steve, right there.
That's Steve, and that's a
that's Steve, and that's a
brand-new trick.
Brand-new trick.
That's one of the noble gases.
That's helium right up there!
Helium!
>> Penn and teller, ladies and
>> penn and teller, ladies and
gentlemen.
Gentlemen.
[Cheers and applause]
Fabulous, fabulous.
>> Thank you, Jonathan.
>> What an ending.
>> We should have done it with
>> we should have done it with
hydrogen.
Hydrogen.
It should be hydrogen.
Oh, the humanity.
>> [Laughs]
Join us next time as we try
join us next time as we try
to fool them here on  fool us.
To fool them here on  fool us.
Good night, everybody.
Thanks for watching.
[Cheers and applause]